Hey teachers, I don't know if you feel
the same as I do, but teaching writing
is not my cup of tea. So, here are a
couple of writing games and activities
that might help.
Okay, the activities I'm sharing with
you in this video aren't for a
particular writing skill or lesson. So,
feel free to apply them to whatever
lesson you find suitable. Let's call the
first activity pass or switch or freeze.
I'm sorry, I couldn't make up my mind.
This activity would work as a great
warm-up or practice. My lesson was about
the cause and effect essay, and I wanted
them to brainstorm some ideas in an
untraditional way before they start
writing. So, I gave each student a paper
with a particular topic like these ones.
If you have a large class, students can
work in pairs or can work in groups.
Then I explained that they have to write
down one single cause or effect
depending on their cards and pass it to
the student next to them. And on the new
card they will do the same. The cards
kept moving from one student to another
till we got you know enough ideas. I
enjoyed this activity and I guess my
student enjoyed it too because it
encourages them to stay focused on
different topics. So it wasn't boring at
all because writing can be boring. It
also lets them compare their answers
with their peers which makes them get
more perspectives and all of that
happened in a fun engaging way. I tried
the same activity but with a different
topic. I was teaching the students how
to write a formal email and I used this
activity to make them memorize the
elements they should include. So I put
them into groups and I gave each group a
couple of papers like these and I told
them to write a formal email following
the structure they already learned. you
know, starting with a good subject line,
then greeting, then the purpose, and all
of the good stuff. Here, they had to pay
attention to both the structure of the
email and the order of the elements.
With another group, we had the narrative
essay. I set up the context of the
essay, a time that you experienced
something truly frightening. We worked
in pairs, so every pair had a large
piece of paper. And I told them, "Now
you're going to start narrating your
spooky story, but as you write it, at
some point you will hear me say,
"Freeze." And when I say freeze, even if
you're in the middle of a word or in the
middle of a sentence, you stop writing
and transfer your paper to the pair next
to you. The students began to write. I
checked that everyone has written
something before I said freeze for the
first time. Then I was like, "Freeze."
papers were transferred to the next two
group so that everyone's working with
another piece of paper with a different
story on it. The students finished up
their stories. I gave them some time to
read, correct, and improve them. And
honestly, all the stories deserved an
Oscar. Moving on to the second activity,
writing postcards. Using postcards in
class can be a motivating writing task
and it adds a level of stimulation for
the students. I have seen this activity
online and my students really loved it
since they don't have to write too much
and I loved it because it involves a
certain level of communication and
imagination which I'm personally fond
of. If you can get a stack of postcards
that's awesome. But if you don't have
any, you could do just like me and print
them on papers or cards and add some
lovely pictures. Anyway, if you're
teaching kids, I recommend getting them
to draw their own pictures instead of
printing them out. Ask them to write a
postcard to a friend telling them about
their imaginary holiday and how the
picture relates to it. You can
absolutely choose a different context.
Once they have written the cards, some
of the students read it out loud and at
the end I collect it and check them up
for them. I think I was teaching
fragments and run on sentences and saw
what errors were made and prepared a
correction slot for the next class.
That's pretty it. Thank you for
watching, awesome teachers.